CpE 421 - Final Exam

	As we encounter problems regarding the hardware or software of a computer, educating us with the proper handling and troubleshooting of computer systems is a great help for a student taking up computer engineering course. Getting to know the parts of your computer system is essential in the process of taking care of your personal devices and belongings. But being knowledgeable enough in troubleshooting your system is a lot of help when problems arise. Once problem is determined, finding the possible solutions to that certain problem would be an easy task, either replacing a component when there’s a defect or proper arranging of a misplaced component, checking the continuity of wires could be a great help too in finding troubles, or a problem in the software could be the trouble that has to be debug. Solving and debugging your hardware or software problems will be a great help even financially. Going to technicians and software experts for hardware and software troubleshooting will cost a fortune, whereas when you are knowledgeable enough to troubleshoot your computer systems’ problems will save you from spending money for payments and fees. With the growing technology and easy access to internet, you can also ask help through google or other websites and gather informations to aid your lack of knowledge in any field. There are so many ways of learning nowadays, you just have to find those ways and make use of the materials and medium around you. 

	As a student who enrolled in this subject, it is an expectation that we should be learning a lot about hardware parts of a computer system, their definitions, their uses and purposes as a part of the entire system, as well as their weakness that could lead to problems, their possible problems in any given circumstances and the possible solutions in dealing with those problems. We, I particularly expected and had a great interest in our hands on exercises when we are going to troubleshoot a computer system and so, our instructors doesn’t let us down, they discussed about some common problems encountered in our systems, they also let us troubleshoot a computer system and a raspberry pie. In this subject matter, we were oriented to certain problems when it comes to devices attached or encrypted in a computer or to the computer itself. We were taught on how to resolve those problems by having possible solutions. We reported and tackled each computer parts or devices of a computer set with their description, their purpose in the system, their common problems and their given solutions to a certain problem. We had shared our knowledge in every device we are assigned to report and have learned from our classmates about their assigned topics too. We discovered and learned new ideas that we or I especially, haven’t known yet. It was interesting looking for defects or problems in a system of complicated circuits. We did hands-on activities as quizzes. We wrote what we observed in a system, their problems regarding hardware and software and our ideas of possible solutions to those found problems. But, as what they say, do not expect too much for the higher your expectations would be, the more disappointment you would feel, we couldn’t perform hands on individually for the lack of computer systems and equipment. I expected we would be handling and troubleshooting systems individually and that what excites me more. But, as I had realized, we lack equipment and we only have limited resources as to what systems we are going to conduct our studies and the problem arouse. We lack computer systems in our school computer laboratory and it’s upsetting for a school which promotes engineering courses. But you, Sir, makes a way for us to conduct our study, and it ended us a group activity and recorded as one of our quizzes for the final term. We checked the continuity of a computer system with a monitor, with its system unit encrypted with the input devices; the keyboard and the mouse, and with the AVR for the power source that would be connected to the main source. We turn it on and off. We noticed some problems regarding the system unit, a component defect in its supply and we wrote our observations and our ideas for the possible solutions for the found problems, as an output for our hands on activity. And for our second activity as the second quiz for the final term, we exchanged devices with the other group. Now, we handled the raspberry pie. We installed the operating system and it works well, we also wrote our observations for the conducted study as an output for our activity. Though it ended us a group activity and to be honest not all of us, members participated but I also learned something from those two activities. 

	And as this semester comes to an end, I would like to thank both of the instructors who imparted their knowledge to all of us, their students. Problems may arise as we continue our journey in this school year, and in this semester, the important things are we all learned and helped each other improving our field of studies and teaches us some aspects in life. To our present instructor, Sir, thank you for sharing your knowledge, not only in regards to troubleshooting but also to your language preferences, Baybayin. Thank you for introducing it to me, to us, and I will surely be using this for the rest of my humble life. May your teaching profession will serve and will be a great help in your journey in life and may it be a wonderful experience as you continue to soar up high. May your dreams reach the peak of it but your feet will always be touching the ground. Never forget to thank the one who is behind all of your success. May God continue to bless you with abundant life. I, your student sincerely thank you from the bottom of my heart.
